INGREDIENTS
250 gm chicken
1 tablespoon all purpose flour
1/4 cup refined oil
1/4 teaspoon green peppercorns
1/4 teaspoon chopped green chilli
1/2 cup chicken stock
1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper
2 tablespoon water
1 tablespoon corn flour
1 beaten egg
1/4 teaspoon ginger
1/4 teaspoon garlic
1 handful cilantro
1 tablespoon light soya sauce
1/4 teaspoon sugar
1 finely chopped spring onions
Step 1 Prepare the egg-flour batter for frying chicken
The Chicken Manchurian recipe is a simple yet delectable Chinese recipe. Take a bowl and add cornflour, flour, salt and pepper along with the beaten egg in it. Mix all these ingredients properly and prepare a batter. Next, dip the chicken pieces in the batter one by one. Make sure it is properly coated and keep aside for 10-15 minutes.
Step 2 Deep fry the batter-coated chicken
Meanwhile, heat oil in a pan over medium flame. Once the oil is sufficiently hot, place the coated chicken pieces in the oil and deep fry till they turn golden brown in colour. Once done, drain the excess oil and keep aside till further use.
Step 3 Prepare the Manchurian sauce
Now, to prepare the Manchurian sauce, heat oil in another pan over medium flame. Once the oil is hot enough, add the garlic and ginger in it. Fry till they become slightly brown in colour. Now add in green chillies and cilantro leaves. Saute these for about a minute or so.
Step 4 Make the gravy and Manchurian and add fried chicken in it, cook for 3-5 minutes and serve hot
Then, bring the flame to low and add in the chicken stock, soya sauce, salt, sugar and pepper. Allow this mixture to simmer and cook for 5 minutes. Once done, add in cornflour along with water in it and bring the mixture to a boil. The last step is to place the fried chicken pieces into the Manchurian sauce. Bring the flame to medium-low and allow the dish to cook for close to 5 minutes. Once done, turn off the flame and transfer the Chicken Manchurian into a serving bowl. Garnish with chopped spring onions and serve hot with fried rice or noodles.


  