Ingredients for kacchi biriyani
2 kg mutton (the meat should not be from very young or too aged goat)
2 cups ghee
1 kg basmati rice (you can use miniature rice as well, but basmati rice will give a special flavor and look longer than usual size of rice)
2 cups yogurt
2 cups milk
1 cup cooking oil
2 teaspoons hot spices powder
2 teaspoons cumin powder
8-10 potatoes medium size (about 500 gm)
2 teaspoons red chili powder
2 cups chopped onion
6 sticks cinnamon
8 pieces cardamoms
6 pieces cloves
1 teaspoon mace powder
2 tablespoons garlic paste
2 tablespoons ginger paste
8 pieces bay leaves
1 teaspoon black pepper
1 teaspoon nutmeg powder
10 pieces of dried Alu Bokhara (prune)
15 pieces raisins
1 tablespoon kewra water
2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons salt

Process for Mutton kacchi biryani
Step 1
Chop mutton about 150 gm size each with a good quality of the sharp knife. Clean the mutton pieces and drain out water.
Step 2
Marinate mutton for 2-3 hours mixing with all spices less 50% ghee and except onion and milk.
Step 3
Fry potatoes lightly in oil and keep separately. Then fry onion slices till they turn to brown color.
Step 4
Half cook rice and then keep on a strainer to drain out water.
Step 5
Take a big deep and heavy pan. It would be non-stick or aluminum or stainless steel. You can check store and online for the best saucepan.
After marinating the mutton, add milk on and then spread rice and half fried potato over mutton. Spread fried onion, rest of the ghee, dried prune, raisin and kewra water one over the other. Cover the pan with a lid and seal it (You can use flour dough for sealing).
Step 6
Step Keep on the burner on low beam for about an hour. You will get a scent of kacchi biryani once cooking of kacchi biryani is over. Open the lid and mix gently and again cover the lid.
Take to the serving dish at the time of meal to serve the mutton kacchi biryani hot and with flavor.
 
Just wait and see, how your family members react after serving and getting the smell of your mutton kacchi biryani.

